hey guys I do not want to seem like I'm
trivializing this topic at all if
anything I want to emphasize the
enormity of the question of playing
video games and quitting video games for
our generation and for every generation
to come in the conceivable future the
experience of quitting alcohol the
experience of quitting cocaine when you
think about it impacts a relatively tiny
percentage of the world's population
you'll always meet people who just you
know for no particular reason never
really got into alcohol I've met people
who just said they didn't like the taste
both growing up as a teenager I've met
people who said they didn't like the way
it made them feel so even when they were
going to parties as a teenager other
people were getting drunk and they just
they just weren't into it there are a
lot of people who have never been
through the process of quitting alcohol
who've never developed a dependency or
an addiction and also just never even
developed a habit for it and yet when
you think about it on a global scale
almost everyone who is not a gamer today
anyone from a society that has regular
access to electricity they have made a
conscious choice to quit playing video
games or stop playing video games I'm 38
years old
so I remember how it was decades ago and
you know if you're a college kid
watching this video let me assure you
your professors went through it this is
not such ancient history you know what I
mean and you will have some professors
today who are still playing video games
you will probably have some professors
in university who are quietly struggling
with video game addiction but everyone
you meet you know unless they're 90
years old and very traditional and lived
on a farm in the countryside or
something almost everyone you meet who
doesn't play video games made an
intentional decision not to in the
current generation of people alive on
planet Earth you know the author george
RR martin who's primarily famous for
Game of Thrones and a Song of Ice and
Fire I remember him just commenting and
passing an interviewer asked him if he
ever played the video games that were
based
his book they were based on his most
successful books and he answered no he
can't allow himself to play videos he's
a very elderly man I'm sorry I don't I
don't know his age but I mean he said he
could not allow himself to play video
games he enjoyed playing them he enjoyed
it too much and he knew he wouldn't get
any work done if he if he left so close
it's not really something as simple as
addiction and quitting an addiction on a
small small number of people struggle
with video game addiction on a much
larger scale on a scale of Millions
and indeed I think billions more than 1
billion in the world certainly we're not
talking about addiction we're talking
about the choice to lead a meaningful
life and what that really entails and
the choice not to play video games in
order to live a meaningful life in order
to pursue some goal or some objective so
you say I'm not making light of this I'm
wearing my sarcastic me--never
shirt for this for this video but I'm
not joking around this is a meaningful
question my own life it's a question
that's touched the lives of many people
I know personally and again when you
scale it up and think of society as a
whole it's a huge issue now for the
future and it's an issue I'm absolutely
certain I'm gonna have to talk about
with my own daughter my daughter is now
four years old and she does play doing
this at age four it's an issue I'm
certain I'm gonna have to talk about
with my daughter not once and not 10
times I'm certain it's gonna come up a
hundred times
in the course of my parenting in the
next next few decades you know possibly
even when she's in her 20s and
what-have-you it's not a decision you
just make once I think most people if
you're really speaking honestly and I
biographically you'll be able to say
there were different periods of your
life when you played video games maybe
as a child it was this way maybe as a
teenager it was this way and then I
think most of the people who've made
videos about this I've looked around on
YouTube they talk about the fact that
maybe in their 20s they went back and
forth at periods of quitting and then
trying to play video games moderately
and making making decisions of this kind
most of us as adults have a crushing
realization that our time is precious
and we it's not a happy or wonderful
thing it may be when you get your first
full-time job that you realize this and
maybe when you have your first child
that you realize this and you're
spending so many hours a day just take
care of this infant but at some point
another thing most people as grown-ups
you look at the clock on the wall or you
think of the pie chart of how many hours
you've got in the day and what you're
doing with them and you realize your
opportunity to make the most out of life
whether it's in terms of the books you
read the things you do the humanitarian
aspirations you have the creative
aspirations you have whether you want to
be a polar or poet or a painter or
you're interested in politics need the
world a better place in some way or just
cultivating your own mind learning
something about about history or making
some meaningful difference the number of
hours you have in a day to do that
is always going to be too few as an
adult and that's a contrast from the
feeling of youth during your childhood
you probably felt that every day had
hours and hours for you to fill up that
it was just a question of dealing with
the boredom you know the boredom of
childhood the boredom of youth of having
so many hours when you weren't at school
with nothing in particular to do and
where your main challenge was staying
out of your parents way was maybe not
making your parents angry or not
annoying your parents and of course
playing video games in many cases
becomes a substitute for a babysitter it
becomes a substitute for real quality
time or other activities you know for
the family they'll be harder for your
parents to manage so it's a way of it's
a way of parents getting rid of kids of
kids doing a you know a safe activity
they don't need to be they don't need to
be watched or monitored by their parents
while they're doing it and that just
eats up hours of the day I looked at you
know since I made that my last video on
this topic a couple days ago I looked at
other youtubers who had rest.this and
there there are not that many there
doesn't seem to be a lively scene within
YouTube of X video gamers or game
quitters people who are or any video
game which is already a surprise to me
so I mean compared to vegan politics or
animal rights or even Buddhism there
doesn't seem to be a lot of heat on this
issue at the moment maybe it's something
that comes and goes
in and out of vogue but I think a lot of
the lot of the videos I did see in the
last couple of days they start by taking
a false first step in that they look at
video games as a form of enjoyment the
enjoyment of life and then they try to
emphasize to the viewer that instead
you should cultivate a diversity of
other forms of enjoyment pursuing the
opposite sex or pursuing the same sex if
you prefer you know dating romance
cultivating friends family and activity
is like mountain climbing or world
travel they just sort of present a
varied palette of what they consider to
be a good life of self-indulgence of
enjoyment in contrast to a life that is
disproportionately devoted to this one
source of enjoyment - playing video
games and I think that's a contrast to
the notion of honor Duty aspiration
ambition that we even see within the
video games themselves video games do
not typically portray as the main
character someone who is fatuous
self-indulgent and simply trying to
enjoy life simply indulging the
pleasures of life if you think about the
protagonists or the heroes of video
games if you think about the type of
career and life that's depicted in video
games again and again and again it's
very often a medieval character it's a
set of kind of Bronze Age virtues or
even Stone Age or juice the type of
self-sacrifice heroism devotion to a
cause indeed stereotypically trying to
save the world is very often the purpose
of video game to save the world what
these video games feature again and
again is a resolute and purposeful life
that has absolutely nothing to do with
enjoying yourself that has nothing to do
with your happiness that very much
presumes as part of its premise and its
plot that a hero that a an adult
character about playing a leading role
in this video game is without any
hesitation willing to sacrifice all the
comforts of home pack up his sword and
his bow and arrow and go out and save
the world go out and take some take on
some quest or some endless series of
quests to make the world a better place
to save the planet to conquer to put his
stamp to make his mark on history
whatever the case may be so I think
actually the contrast that you can
confront video game players with is not
between a more diverse and so-called
healthy life of self-indulgence you know
a form of happiness you know that to
live for one's own happiness you should
instead dissipate your energies into
these these various leisure activities
and not just one leisure activity I
think the question to ask is why aren't
you trying to live like your own heroes
as absurd as that may be why aren't you
trying to be like link in the Legend of
Zelda Oh mister I pick any kind of
stereotypical mission to save the world
video game what's your mission what's
your aspiration what's your ambition why
aren't you the hero in your own plot why
isn't your life your own video game in
which you are on some series of fools
errands now life is long especially if
you're not tragically killed in a bus
accident in real life people who have
that kind of motivation often go through
a series of disillusionment they often
complete one mission and are
disenchanted and take on another I'm
very self-critical about the kind of
missions to save the world make the
world a better place of I've been on
myself you know when I was involved with
the Green Party in Canada with ecology
in Canada of course very quickly you
become cynical about and insightful
about what's right and what's wrong with
the Green Party the ways in which it's a
waste of your time what have you but of
course that can lead to you know more
effective activism there after you
taking on a new direction you know you
learn and you learn you adapt you either
take on a new mission or change the way
you're doing it I went into humanitarian
work and was really considered a
humanitarian work in Cambodia and Laos
Southeast Asian countries I wasn't a
fool I mean I wasn't trying to save the
world that was already a pretty cynical
down-to-earth pragmatic character but
sure I mean I can also make fun of
myself for that and when I talk about it
with other people who know the field you
know in some ways I could speak very
positively about that experience how
much I learned from it and
positive outcomes from it but another
way is sure I can I can criticize my own
naivete to some extent or not even not
even naive to the extent to which my
ambitions my hopes and dreams were
impossible we impossible to satisfy
impossible to realize but so what
challenge yourself do the impossible
don't take on beating level 12 in a
video game don't take on a task that's
been designed to be possible for your
amusement and diversion take on
impossible tasks and when you want to do
that when do you want to have that
ambition when you're in your 60s when
you're in your 50s when you're in your
20s all of the above I met people doing
humanitarian work and doing scholarly
work doing because I did both research
and humanitarian work I met people doing
the same things I was doing in Southeast
Asia after their retirement you know
when they're in their 60s and I met
people doing it in their early 20s
you know you met people at all different
stages of life who decided on whatever
the issue was you know because I worked
in a diverse range of fields whether it
was something in the arts that they had
their ambitions a humanitarian field
like hiv/aids you know research major
that straight up handing out sacks of
rice to starving people that kind of
direct humanitarian work or more
philosophical and historical research
and again it could be an including you
know like massacres crimes against
humanity Zinn the 20th century it's not
ancient history but recent history where
people are still alive interviewing them
you know documenting that history for
another generation whatever their
passion was the taking on big ambitious
impossible goals if you like where you
become you know the hero in your own
game and it may end tragically or a man
with your disillusionment and Amanda
with your Bordeaux and they ended with
you you were having a rage quit could
you take out of the game sure that's
part of the the drama of urban life but
I think actually you're missing the
point
if you treat videogames as just one form
of enjoyment and you reach out to people
who are so-called videogame addicts and
say no no you need to deepen and
diversify you
joining of life I really say the
opposite I say what the is wrong
with you
why is your life just about enjoyment
why are you living for self-indulgence
for happiness for these kinds of shallow
pleasures and I ask that of people in
their 20s 30s 40s right up to their 60s
and 70s I would ask that of my own
grandmother she was still alive you know
I don't think people should live that
way at any age well any age above 20 if
you're four years old admittedly at four
years old your life may just be devoted
to self-indulgence and short-term
pleasures your life may just be one
popsicle after another and it may just
be one video game after another from the
age of four to twelve or something okay
you know I've got I've got to put in a
cab it there but sure I do think that as
adults we should take on ambitions both
in trying to make the world a better
place and more immediately in trying to
make ourselves better people you may uh
turley fail to transform the world if
you go and do humanitarian work in
Cambodia or you take on some more
scholarly pursuit that's entirely in a
library
whatever whatever kind of research a
humanitarian goal or political goal you
may have may be straight up party
politics whatever it is you may uh
turley change you sir pardon me you may
uh Turley fail to change the world but I
guarantee you will not fail to change
yourself even if the outcomes are tragic
even if the outcomes are heartbreaking
even if you go through a long series of
disillusionment what you learn in that
process it's going to become part of who
you are as an adult and that is an
experience you can never have with video
games and you can never have it with
card games you could never have it with
billiards you can never have it with
games period so my message is not just
about quitting video games it's really
about quitting everything and about
taking on real ambitions real goals even
though those goals may lead to your own
destruction to be sure in my own story
there was a
plus an even self-destructive element to
the ambitions I have some of the things
like I did I could say I wouldn't have
wanted to do them if they were easy I
wouldn't have wanted to do them if they
were safe I didn't want to be involved
in humanitarian work in Sri Lanka it was
too safe
I want to Cambodia you know I mean with
in Laos I could have stayed in the
capital city
no I wanted to get up on the border
where the civil war was still going on
you know I wanted to be in the most
dangerous areas where the red-hot
bullets were still flying and where the
starvation was still a problem where the
humanitarian work was there to be done
even within research I always wanted to
be on the frontier the ragged frontier
of where things were unknown where
things hadn't been done before or you
know there was there was impossible work
to be done I wanted to test myself and
push myself to the limit and I wanted to
do all that when I was a young man
because my professors at university were
old men who had never done those things
I saw my professors as men who were
outwardly successful but were inwardly
failures and if I had a choice I'd
rather things were the other way around